Why Not the Manual Way?
Setting up VMs can be a tedious process especially when you need to deploy 100s of them. This takes up a lot of time which could otherwise be used in tasks that can help deliver better business outcomes. Here are some of the drawbacks of deploying VMs manually:

Manual OS installation can be time consuming.

It can be tough to replicate when working with multiple VMs.

These can also be prone to human error.



Why Use a Tool Like Vagrant?
There are many benefits for using an automation tool like Vagrant. Using such open-source tools can give the engineers a lot of time back which they can use on other mission critical or time sensitive tasks. Here are some of the advantages of using Vagrant:

No manual installation required — VM images are available on Vagrant Cloud also known as boxes.

Manage all VM settings and changes from a single file aka vagrantfile.

Simple commands that you can directly use from the CLI to manage your VMs.



How to Use Vagrant?
Step 1: Create a directory with the name of the VM you want to create.

Become a member
Step 2: Find the OS you want your VM to run on Vagrant Cloud and get the box name.

Step 3: Cd into the directory you created and use vagrant init [box name] in the shell.

Step 4: Once the vagrant file is created open it and make any required changes that you want and save it.

Step 5: Use vagrant up to initialize your VM.



Useful Vagrant Commands
vagrant init [box name] — Creates the vagrant file with default settings for that OS.

vagrant up — Initializes the VM.

vagrant ssh — Remotely connects to the VM.

vagrant halt — Gracefully shuts down the VM.

vagrant reload — Reboots the VM. Required when you make any changes to the vagrant file and want the changes to reflect.

vagrant destroy — Deletes the VM instance.

vagrant box list — Lists all the VMs present in the Vagrant environment.

vagrant global-status — Shows the running status of all the VMs in the Vagrant environment.

P.S: Always use these commands from the directory where your vagrant file is located.